A welcome.
So in this video we're continuing on talking about logic and boolean logic in particular things that
return true or false.
So we saw comparison operators.
Hopefully that was straightforward.
Now we're going to take it up a little bit and learn how to actually combine these together.
Chain them in different ways using what are called logical operators.
So these are also tools that we can throw into any IF OR ELSE statement but they work slightly differently
in that they actually connect other comparison operators together.
So they basically help us make more complex logical statements.
So I'm going to just show them to you first and name them.
So we have and or and not those of the three.
And we'll start off by talking about and the idea here is that there are two sides to an end.
There's the left and the right are the first and the second component.
In order for this whole thing to be considered true both the left and the right have to be true.
So in this example A and B aren't actually defined.
This is just a shorthand.
But whatever goes here it could be less than 5 and X greater than 20.
Both things would have to be true.
Obviously that's impossible.
But you know maybe it could be is name equal to Charlie and last name equal to brown then print whatever.
You're a Good Man Charlie Brown.
So let's try it out here.
It's the example we'll use is of movie tickets you're going to a theater at least in the U.S..
Infants usually get in for free up until let's say up until two years and then from two until 10 years
old there's a child price ticket.
So let's say that we want to write a conditional that checks if somebody age is between two and eight.
So we could do that you know we know how to do things.
Well first let's make a variable called Age and we'll set it equal to six.
And we know how to do you know is age greater than two.
That gives us true and we also could do is age less than eight.
That's also true.
And you know those could be greater than or equal to less than or equal to.
If you want to include two and 8 but to chain them together we can do this.
So would you age greater than two and age less than eight.
Now what do we expect to happen.
Remember both sides have to be true.
This part is true.
We already saw this part is true.
So the whole thing is true.
However if one of these was not true.
So let's say age now instead of being greater than to be greater than six.
They lost that and less than eight.
Remember that age is currently 6.
So six is not greater than 6.
This is false.
Which makes the whole thing false it spoils the entire pie.
As you can see.
OK.
So that's.
And and we could use that to do something like you know put that in the statement.
Let's do that now.
I'll recall the last line and we'll just add it really quick.
If age is greater than two and age is less than eight will do print.
You pay child price.
Not quite English.
But there we go.
Hit enter and because ages 6 it triggers.
You pay child price.
OK.
Next off Rader will talk about is or so or is similar in that there's a left and right side an A and
B but only one has to be true for the whole thing to be considered true.
So let me show you an example of that.
And to do this all make a little demo let's do touch or dot p y.
OK.
And in this file I'm just going to ask for input first.
So I'm going to say city equals input.
Where do you live.
And we're going to check if a person lives in California so if they say they live in San Francisco or
they live in Los Angeles then we're going to print.
You live in California so we could check easily.
Is City equal to Los Angeles and I'm not going to worry about capitalization.
I mean assume everything is lowercase and we can also check easily.
Is City equal to San Francisco.
And what we want to do is write a single statement that just says if City is Los Angeles or city is
San Francisco that's at an F Now if that's the case will say print.
You live in California and then let's add an else that just says print.
You live somewhere else.
Now of course this doesn't account for all the thousands of other cities in California but it's just
a simple example.
So again only one side has to be true.
Let's test it out.
So we're going to run Python 3 if I can spell it.
Or dot p y.
Where do you live.
Let's type but do New York first.
You live somewhere else.
Great but now to San Francisco.
And what did I do.
I spell it wrong over here.
Oh my gosh.
Well that undermines my entire video.
Let's try that again.
Now we can do San Francisco and it says You live in California.
I can do the same thing but say Los Angeles.
And it says You live in California.
So that's.
Or only one side has to be true for the whole thing to be considered true.
So just a quick example with numbers we could do something silly like one is less than three or one
equals ninety nine.
What does is value it to.
Well one is less than three That's true.
So we already know the entire thing is considered true because there's an or two it doesn't matter what's
on the right side but just you know for practice the right side is completely wrong.
One is not equal to 99.
So this side is false.
This side is true.
True or false because the or one side only needs to be truth.
So the whole thing is true.
All right.
So this video grew a bit with some of the examples.
I'm going to end it here and put logical not in it's own video right after this.
So we covered and and or hopefully you're clear on what the difference between the two is.
If not we'll get a lot more practice with them.
OK.
See you in the next video.